Andreas C is a senior lecturer in
security studies at Kings College London
and he's joining us live from there
thank you very much for your time Mr C I
want to talk more about what we've been
reporting Israel's Director of National
Security Council saying that the
decision to allow in enough field to
around the water the sewage systems in
Gaza was taken to prevent the spread of
disease that they don't want epidemics
that will harm civilians they all their
soldiers that fighting will stop if
there's an epidemic and if there's a
humanitarian crisis and international
outcry that they won't be able to
continue fighting under those conditions
first point about that what do you make
of him saying we have to prevent an
epidemic so that we can keep
fighting well I mean this is I think
this is not really an act of empathy I
think what we've seen from as you've
already mentioned these statements from
the far-right government and cabinet
ministers who are basically saying
nothing should be given to the
population of Gaza because everyone is
being kind of collectively being
punished for what Hamas is doing um this
is more about they know that the clock
is ticking they know that the
International Community especially
Western allies of Israel are
increasingly uh nervous about what
Israel is doing they especially the
Biden Administration wants to see that
this is coming to an end somehow I can't
see this going on Beyond Christmas uh
particularly at the current rate of
dying and obviously if you have more
people dying and that's most likely
going to happen with less humanitarian
Aid coming in uh and obviously the
entire infrastructure being destroyed
we'll probably see a lot more death
because of itarian suffering and we the
with the growing death toll the people
going to the streets in Western capitals
as well protesting for a ceasefire
demanding a ceasefire uh and and and and
kind of condemning Israel will
eventually have uh put so much pressure
on political leaders that eventually
that war will have to come to an end so
Israel cannot is not operating in a
vacuum and I think making sure that not
too many people are dying is a way for
Israel and the IDF as well to give
themselves a bit of maneuverability and
freedom to maneuver in what is an
increasingly uh difficult information
environment for them but how can you say
making sure not too many people are
dying when more than
11,500 people have been killed and 4,600
children have been killed you know the
National Security Council director said
that if there's a humanitarian crisis
and an international outcry they won't
be able to continue fighting under those
conditions isn't there already a
humanitarian crisis and international
outcry or are you saying that there is
but it hasn't been enough to stop them
that that amount of deaths hasn't been
enough to stop
them this is the million-dollar question
that everybody is asking I mean I'm for
the last six weeks or so I've been
absolutely shocked at how little the
International Community has actually
shown empathy to the plight of people
and the slaughter that's going on in
Gaza obviously the humanitarian crisis
now must be the worst in the world
because it's not just a humanitarian
crisis it's an active war going people
are being targeted by shells by
ordinance and at the same time deprived
of the basic needs the land they're
living on has become uninhabitable
they're trapped in a in a prison where
they can't leave and now the IDF is
talking about moving operation South
where people are already trapped that
have already fled the northern Gaza
where they're supposed to go this crisis
is absolutely atrocious but obviously
there is a momentum Israel had a
momentum very early on in international
uh in an international support
particularly in the west where people
said I what an an atrocious um you know
attack by Hamas on the 7th of October
sympathy was with Israel that has now
changed towards sympathy towards the
Palestinian civilian population and the
momentum is growing and growing and
growing nobody knows where that golden
figure is and that's horrible the
horrible as it sounds it seems like it
takes a while for Western governments
particularly in the UK the US and
Germany as well to kind of turn around
and say actually we need to put our foot
down and demand a ceasefire or at least
thean puls we move from no ceasefire no
humanitarian pause to humanitarian pause
eventually we're moving towards a demand
for a ceasefire and I can't see that
being too far out because the death to
the atrocities being committed right now
are unprecedented Mr C let's hope you're
right thank you very much for your
analysis as always that's Andreas C
joining us live from
London thank you